**Discrete components** are made up of a **single** semiconductor device.
An **integrated circuit** is made up **multiple** semiconductor devices which are interconnected **on a single chip**.

# 1 MOSFET
MOSFET stands for metal-oxide semiconductor field-effect transistor.

Transistors are **switches** which contain **no moving parts**. They can be used to 
- **regulate current** 
- **voltage**
The MOSFET is most common due to its **efficiency** and **versatility**. MOSFET chips are made up of semiconductors. Semiconductors allow **limited movement of charge carriers**, meaning that if the charge carriers are given a small amount of energy, **they can cross through the material**.

For comparison, in **conductors**, no energy is needed by the charge carriers in order to move through the material whereas in **insulators**, a large amount of energy is required to allow charge carriers to move through the material.

Two possible types of charge carriers:
- Electrons -> removed from atoms using thermionic emission
- Holes -> absence of an electron

Two types of semiconductors:
- N-type: have an excess of electrons
- P-type: have an excess of holes

## P-N Junction
If a p-type and an n-type material are put close to each other, this forms a p-n junction. The conduction  electrons on the n-type material closest to the p-type material are attracted towards the holes and fill them. 

This causes a region to have no spare charge carriers, hence referred to as a depletion zone. The **depletion zone** acts as an **insulator** which requires a **large (positive) voltage** to be supplied to the p-type electrons to cross through to the n-type material.

---

A MOSFET has three terminals:
1. Drain - where electrons leave (connected to the positive terminal)
2. Gate - a voltage here regulates the flow of the electrons
3. Source - the source of the electrons flowing out